RFC: Strip and Transform Flow Types to ship Standard JavaScript on React Native Published Package (#949)
react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals: proposals/0000-strip-flow-types-from-published-package.md

---
title: Strip Flow Types from React Native Published Package
author:
- Bruno Bodian
date: 2025-10-20
---

> # RFC0000: Strip Flow Types from React Native Published Package

Reviewer: nit. And we have the RFC # now :)
```suggestion
# RFC0949: Strip Flow Types from Published `react-native` Package
```

## Summary

> This proposal seeks to remove Flow type annotations from the JavaScript code published to npm in the `react-native` package. Currently, React Native ships JavaScript files that contain Flow annotations plus separate TypeScript definition files (`.d.ts`). This proposal would strip the Flow annotations from the JavaScript source files while maintaining the existing TypeScript definitions and adding Flow definition files (`.js.flow`) for Flow users.

Reviewer: Note: Per my incoming comment on the overall approach, let's remove "and adding Flow definition files (`.js.flow`) for Flow users.". Won't be needed (I think) 🙏🏻

```suggestion
This proposal seeks to modernize the `react-native` npm package by distributing plain JavaScript source code with Flow types stripped. This will help the ecosystem by significantly expanding compatibility with modern JS parsers and tooling, and reducing coupling with the user-land `@react-native/babel-preset`.
```
